# [Elon Musk loses big in court; X boycott perfectly legal](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2026/03/elon-musk-loses-big-in-court-x-boycott-perfectly-legal/)

On Thursday, Elon Musk lost his lawsuit alleging that advertisers violated antitrust law by colluding on an ad boycott after he took over Twitter, gutted content moderation teams, and disbanded the Trust and Safety Council.

In her opinion, US District Judge Jane Boyle wrote that the lawsuit was dismissed because Musk failed to state a claim. His arguments that advertisers acted against their own best interests by avoiding advertising on his platform, now called X, did not plead facts showing that consumers were harmed. Without consumer harm, there can be no antitrust violation, the judge wrote, deeming the ad boycott perfectly legal.

“The very nature of the alleged conspiracy does not state an antitrust claim, and the Court therefore has no qualm dismissing with prejudice,” Boyle said. At one point, she emphasized, “the question underlying antitrust injury is whether consumers—not competitors—have been harmed.”

For Musk, the loss is likely significant. He had argued that advertisers should be “criminally prosecuted” after allies in Congress released a report claiming they were conspiring to tank Twitter’s revenue with the supposed goal of censoring conservative voices.

The lawsuit was also part of a larger “thermonuclear” legal fight that Musk started when he sued Media Matters for America for their reporting that he claimed prompted the boycott. That lawsuit remains ongoing but may be hobbled by the judge ruling that there was no illegal boycott.

As of this writing, Musk has not commented on the ruling, and X did not respond to Ars’ request to comment.

It seems likely, though, given Musk’s heated public statements about the litigation, that X will appeal.

---

# [Spotify seeks $300M from Anna's Archive, which ignores all court proceedings](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2026/03/spotify-lawsuit-tries-to-kick-annas-archive-off-the-web-without-much-success/)

Spotify and major record labels are seeking a $322 million default judgment from Anna’s Archive, which hasn’t responded to court proceedings over its scraping of millions of music files from Spotify’s streaming service.

The music companies are also seeking a permanent injunction in an attempt to eject the Anna’s Archive website from the Internet by cutting off its access to domain and hosting providers. But the plaintiffs previously obtained a similar injunction that proved to be little more than an inconvenience for the shadow library, which has changed providers and said it’s working on bolstering its ability to remain online in the face of court orders.

The music companies sued Anna’s Archive in late December and quickly obtained a court order that shut down the shadow library’s .org domain, though Anna’s Archive has remained online elsewhere. Anna’s Archive has filed no response to the lawsuit in US District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the clerk of court last month certified that the defendant is in default.

The plaintiffs yesterday asked for a default judgment ordering Anna’s Archive to pay $300 million to Spotify, $7.5 million to Sony, another $7.5 million to Universal Music Group (UMG), and $7.2 million to Warner. In addition to money, they seek a permanent injunction requiring domain and hosting companies to disable access to Anna’s Archive websites.

“Defendant’s blatant and willful disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights and the Court’s authority warrants imposition of statutory damages against Defendant for copyright infringement in the amount of $22,200,000, and for violation of the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) in the amount of $300,000,000, as well as permanent injunctive relief,” Spotify and the record labels said in a memorandum of law.

## “Blatant” violation of preliminary injunction

Anna’s Archive posted torrents with 2.8 million music files and said it had scrapped 86 million in all, but the plaintiffs seek damages only for 120,000 files they downloaded as part of their investigation into the leak. Spotify’s requested DMCA damages are based on statutory damages of $2,500 for each act of circumventing Spotify’s technological measures for protecting copyrighted works.

---

# [Internet Yiff Machine: We hacked 93GB of "anonymous" crime tips](https://arstechnica.com/security/2026/03/internet-yiff-machine-we-hacked-93gb-of-anonymous-crime-tips/)

P3 Global Intel claims that it has “quickly become the new standard in tip management for Crime Stoppers programs, [Law Enforcement Agencies], and government agencies helping to solve and prevent crimes around the world.”

Its software does what it says on the tin: It accepts tips from the general public and then manages conversations between law enforcement and the tipper. Many of these tips are, by their very nature, extremely sensitive, and disclosure of the tip could imperil people’s lives. P3 promises on its websites that “your anonymity is protected at all times.”

But earlier this month, hackers calling themselves the, err, “Internet Yiff Machine” released 93GB of data that they claim was pilfered from P3’s tip-taking system.

(“Yiff” is, in the words of a Wikipedia article on the subject that I would NOT CLICK ON AT WORK due to its drawing of a cheetah with human genitalia, “a slang term used in the furry fandom to refer to pornographic content of anthropomorphic animal characters.”)

The data was sent to Straight Arrow News and to the Distributed Denial of Secrets (DDoS) leak archive. Given its sensitivity, DDoS is not releasing the data to the public, but it will make it available to “established journalists and researchers.”

In its write-up on the leak, Straight Arrow News noted that the archive “contains extensive personal data on people accused by tipsters: names, email addresses, dates of birth, phone numbers, home addresses, license plate numbers, Social Security numbers and criminal histories.” It also includes replies from investigators.

The software certainly doesn’t look very sophisticated; the Web version (there’s also an app) is a basic form with a file upload box and lots and lots of text fields, including “Gang Activity,” “Anyone Else Abusing Victim,” “Scars, Marks, Tattoos, Piercings,” “Where exactly is the weapon located?” and “How are drugs sold?”

---

# [As RFK Jr.’s anti-vaccine ways turn toxic to GOP, CDC director is hard to find](https://arstechnica.com/health/2026/03/as-rfk-jr-s-anti-vaccine-ways-turn-toxic-to-gop-cdc-director-is-hard-to-find/)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention hasn’t had a director since August, and now it’s without even a temporary one after the Trump administration blew through a federal deadline on Wednesday to nominate someone for the permanent role.

According to federal law, there’s a 210-day limit on a Senate-confirmed position being filled by someone in an acting capacity. The clock started when anti-vaccine Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. fired Susan Monarez from her Senate-confirmed role as CDC director in late August—allegedly after she refused to rubber-stamp changes to CDC vaccine recommendations. Until yesterday, Jay Bhattacharya, who heads the National Institutes of Health, had stepped in to also be the acting director of the CDC. But he can no longer hold the position officially.

The void of leadership comes as the Trump administration is working to restrain Kennedy after finding his relentless anti-vaccine agenda is widely unpopular and potentially harmful to Republicans in the upcoming midterm elections.

Since taking office, Kennedy has made a series of moves to undermine vaccinations, including unilaterally rolling back recommendations for COVID-19 vaccines, canceling hundreds of millions of dollars in grant funding for promising mRNA vaccine technology, dramatically overhauling the CDC’s childhood vaccine schedule, and firing all of CDC’s expert vaccine advisors, only to largely replace them with hand-selected anti-vaccine allies, who rolled back recommendations further, including for the life-saving birth dose of the hepatitis B vaccine.

Kennedy has also served as the country’s top health official amid several snowballing measles outbreaks, the likes of which the US hasn’t seen since measles was declared eliminated in 2000. The federal response to the outbreaks has been notably muted, and Kennedy himself has spread dangerous misinformation about the measles vaccine while touting unproven treatments.

---

# [Netflix raises prices for every subscription tier by up to 12.5 percent](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2026/03/netflix-increases-prices-for-all-plans-by-up-to-2-per-month/)



---

# [You've got $20,000 to spend on an EV: Here are some options](https://arstechnica.com/cars/2026/03/youve-got-20000-to-spend-on-an-ev-here-are-some-options/)

With a new war in the Middle East driving up gas prices, American drivers are once again remembering that electric vehicles are much cheaper to operate and therefore worth considering. Buying a brand-new EV might not be the best way to save money, but the good news is that the used EV market continues to grow, and for the buyer looking to spend between $15,000–$20,000 on something electric, we’re starting to hit a real sweet spot.

Over the past few weeks, we’ve looked at used EVs on a smaller budget. If you don’t need much range, even $5,000 will get you behind the wheel of a Nissan Leaf. At $10,000, BMW’s interesting i3 becomes affordable, as does the Chevrolet Bolt, although expect examples to have some mileage on them. For $15,000 you can find newer Bolts and bigger-batteried i3s, as well as some of Hyundai and Kia’s smaller or older EVs.

Once we jump up into the next (arbitrary) price bracket—$15,000 to $20,000—many of the newer, longer-range EVs that debuted post-pandemic are now affordable.

The No. 1 concern among consumers when it comes to a used EV is the state of the battery; early horror stories from the first generation of lithium-ion EVs like the Nissan Leaf have created the impression that electric car batteries degrade as quickly as the one in your phone. But the truth is that modern EVs with proper thermal management are a much safer bet, losing about 2 percent capacity a year. And since we’re talking today about cars that will be model-year 2021 or newer, that means you can buy one knowing that the battery is still covered by the manufacturer’s warranty, which is usually eight years/100,000 miles.

---

# [Study: Sycophantic AI can undermine human judgment](https://arstechnica.com/science/2026/03/study-sycophantic-ai-can-undermine-human-judgment/)

We all need a little validation now and then from friends or family, but sometimes too much validation can backfire—and the same is true of AI chatbots. There have been several recent cases of overly sycophantic AI tools leading to negative outcomes, including users harming themselves and/or others. But the harm might not be limited to these extreme cases, according to a new paper published in the journal Science. As more people rely on AI tools for everyday advice and guidance, their tendency to overly flatter and agree with users can have harmful effects on those users’ judgment, particularly in the social sphere.

The study showed that such tools can reinforce maladaptive beliefs, discourage users from accepting responsibility for a situation, or discourage them from repairing damaged relationships. That said, the authors were quick to emphasize during a media briefing that their findings were not intended to feed into “doomsday sentiments” about such AI models. Rather, the objective is to further our understanding of how such AI models work and their impact on human users, in hopes of making them better while the models are still in the early-ish development stages.

Co-author Myra Cheng, a graduate student at Stanford University, said she and her co-authors were inspired to study this issue after they began noticing a pronounced increase in the number of people around them who had started relying on AI chatbots for relationship advice—and often ended up receiving bad advice because the AI would take their side no matter what. Their interest was bolstered by recent surveys showing nearly half of Americans under 30 have asked an AI tool for personal advice. “Given how common this is becoming, we wanted to understand how an overly affirming AI advice might impact people’s real-world relationships,” said Cheng.

Granted, there has been some prior research looking at AI sycophancy, but these focused on very limited settings, such as how often an AI tool will agree with you even if means contradicting a well-established fact. Cheng and her co-authors wanted to look more closely at the broader social implications.

---

# [The debut of Gemini 3.1 Flash Live could make it harder to know if you're talking to a robot](https://arstechnica.com/ai/2026/03/the-debut-of-gemini-3-1-flash-live-could-make-it-harder-to-know-if-youre-talking-to-a-robot/)

Text generated by artificial intelligence often has a particular vibe that gives it away as machine-generated, but it has become harder to pick out those idiosyncrasies as the tech has improved. We may be seeing a similar evolution of generative AI audio. Google has announced a new AI audio model called Gemini 3.1 Flash Live—as the name implies, it’s designed for real-time conversation. It’s rolling out in some Google products starting today, and developers will be able to start building their own chatty robots with the model, too.

Google says this AI is much faster and produces speech with a more natural cadence, aiming to solve a long-running issue with AI-generated speech. Like a chatbot, there’s always a delay between input and output in generative audio systems. Longer delays and unnatural inflection make conversations feel sluggish and harder to follow. Researchers generally believe 300 milliseconds of latency is about the limit for optimal speech perception, but Google has not specified any particular delay for Gemini 3.1 Flash Live. It just vaguely has the speed you need.

But benchmark numbers? Google has plenty of those, which it claims show that 3.1 Flash Live will be a more reliable way to have audio-to-audio AI conversations. For example, a big gain in the ComplexFuncBench Audio shows the new model is better at complex, multi-step tasks. Gemini 3.1 Flash Live also tops the charts in the Big Bench Audio test, which evaluates reasoning with a set of 1,000 audio questions.

---

# [Intel Core Ultra 270K and 250K Plus review: Conditionally great CPUs](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2026/03/intel-core-ultra-270k-and-250k-plus-review-conditionally-great-cpus/)

Many of our graphics card reviews early last year and in the early 2020s focused on the difficulties of reviewing and recommending graphics cards when the manufacturer-suggested price points effectively didn’t exist. Now, reviews of *any* new PC component have to contend with the much more broadly awful market for consumer PC parts as AI data center-fueled demand for RAM and flash memory chips drives up prices for DDR5 kits, SSDs, and GPUs.

In our August 2025 system guide, 32GB of DDR5 and a decent 2TB SSD would run you less than $200. Today, you’d pay between three and four times as much for similar components.

This is the context that Intel’s Core Ultra 200S Plus chips—the $199 Core Ultra 5 250K Plus and $299 Core Ultra 7 270K Plus, still codenamed Arrow Lake just like the originals—have launched into. They’re solid performers, they’re reasonably power-efficient, and for heavy multi-threaded workloads, they’re a better value than what AMD can offer for the same price (though even years-old non-X3D AMD chips retain a small edge in games).

But getting a good price on a CPU does little to mitigate the cost of the rest of the components, either in a new build or in an upgrade (since in both cases you’re likely to be contending with a pricey upgrade from DDR4 to DDR5). Unlike AMD’s AM5 socket, Intel’s LGA 1851 socket provides no upgrade path.

Intel has put together quite a decent mid-generation refresh here, CPUs that at most other times in PC building history would have been the basis for a good budget-focused gaming PC or workstation. But both chips have the disadvantage of launching at a moment when “value” in most other PC components is difficult to find.

---

# [OpenAI “indefinitely” shelves plans for erotic ChatGPT](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2026/03/chatgpt-wont-talk-dirty-any-time-soon-as-sexy-mode-turns-off-investors-report-says/)

Following backlash, OpenAI won’t be rolling out an erotic version of ChatGPT any time soon.

According to the Financial Times, the controversial plan has been shelved “indefinitely” as OpenAI “refocuses” its attention on “core products.”

Insiders told FT that OpenAI mulled scrapping the “adult mode” plan entirely, as even its own advisors warned that ChatGPT users could form unhealthy attachments, which might harm their mental health. One advisor chillingly suggested that the tweak risked turning ChatGPT into a “sexy suicide coach.”

Advisors weren’t the only ones seeing red flags, the report said.

Staff began questioning whether sexy ChatGPT aligned with OpenAI’s mission to make AI that benefits humanity. For staff working on developing “adult mode,” it apparently wasn’t worth the effort to overcome technical challenges for the feature. They faced “difficulties,” sources told FT, “training AI models that previously avoided such conversations for safety reasons to produce explicit content.” It was also hard to keep illegal behavior out of outputs, like bestiality and incest, when using datasets that included sexual content, sources said.

Sexy ChatGPT also apparently turned off investors. Two people familiar with the matter told FT that “OpenAI’s flirtation with adult mode had caused disquiet,” as some investors questioned why OpenAI would risk its reputation on a product with “relatively small upside” for its business.

Even without erotic responses, ChatGPT has been linked to mental health harms in both kids and adults through lawsuits alleging that OpenAI recklessly released the chatbot without appropriate safeguards.

---

# [Google Gemini now lets you import your chats and data from other AI apps](https://www.engadget.com/ai/google-gemini-now-lets-you-import-your-chats-and-data-from-other-ai-apps-225711015.html?src=rss)

Google is adding a pair of new features to Gemini aimed at making it easier to switch to the AI chatbot. Personal history and past context are big components to how a chatbot provides customized answers to each user. Gemini now supports importing history from other AI platforms. Both free and paid consumer accounts can use these options.

With the first option, Gemini can create a prompt asking a competitor's AI chatbot to summarize what it has learned about you. The result might include details such as your typical written communication style, your family members' names or your key preferences. The other AI tool's summary can then be pasted into Gemini, providing Google's platform with a preliminary profile.

The second option allows users to import their entire chat history with a different AI assistant into Gemini. Doing so allows people to reference earlier conversations or requests made on a different platform after migrating to the Google option.

Anthropic recently introduced a similar memory import feature, so Google may also be hoping to scoop up some of the people who are dropping OpenAI following its shady-sounding new arrangement with the Department of War. Whatever the motivation, these options should make it easier to have a seamless transition between providers.

---

# [Apple discontinues the Mac Pro](https://www.engadget.com/computing/apple-discontinues-the-mac-pro-221502339.html?src=rss)

Apple has confirmed to Engadget that the Mac Pro, the desktop tower-shaped computer that was last updated in 2023, has been discontinued. As *9to5Mac* notes, the computer no longer appears in the lineup of Macs on Apple's website or in its storefront. That means at least for now, the Mac Studio is the Apple's top-of-the-line professional computer.

The current version of the Mac Pro was introduced in 2019, with a distinct cheese-grater design, Intel chips and a bevy of easily-accessible expansion slots. Apple released the computer as a make-good for several years of inadequately meeting the performance needs of professional Mac users, but its uncontested time at the top of the company's lineup was short-lived. A year later in 2020, Apple began transitioning to its custom M-series Arm chips, proving Macs could be more powerful and power-efficient by abandoning Intel entirely.

Apple eventually updated the Mac Pro to the M2 Ultra without updating the computer's design, but by then the writing was on the wall. The far smaller Mac Studio, introduced in 2022, also supported the new chip, and it's been updated since then while the Mac Pro has languished. *Bloomberg* reported Apple was planning to retire the Mac Pro in November 2025, so it's not all that surprising the company quietly pulled the plug only a few months later.

Apple’s effort to cater to professionals, creatives and anyone with a chunk of change to drop on a fast computer lives on through the Mac Studio, and the recently announced Studio Display XDR, itself a replacement for the Pro Display XDR Apple announced for the 2019 Mac Pro. Now all the company needs to do is update the Mac Studio with an M5 Max chip to make it the most “pro” computer Apple offers.

**Update, March 26, 6:25PM ET: **Added confirmation from Apple that the Mac Pro has been discontinued.

---

# [X moves the ashes of TweetDeck behind its $40 Premium+ subscription](https://www.engadget.com/social-media/x-moves-the-ashes-of-tweetdeck-behind-its-40-premium-subscription-210601250.html?src=rss)

X Pro, the feature most users would recognize as TweetDeck, has been removed as a benefit of the social network's Premium subscription. It is now only part of the Premium+ tier, which costs $40 a month.

TweetDeck was rebranded to X Pro in 2023 following Elon Musk's renaming of Twitter to X. It became a subscription feature shortly after. The tool offered a popular interface for showing multiple timelines, feeds and lists in a single interface.

Engadget staffers using X Pro at the Premium level didn't find any advanced notice that the feature would be changing subscription tiers, so people may be in for an unpleasant surprise when they next go to access their accounts. The feature appears to be gone no matter when you last paid up for the service, which might feel pretty scummy for people who just re-upped to have such a key feature lost.

At least some of the X support documentation currently describes X Pro as only available under Premium+. It's listed as such under the help center page listing different X Premium plan benefits, but at the time of publish, there's currently no mention of the limitation on the dedicated X Pro page. Here's what Grok had to say when a confused subscriber asked about the change:

Hi Nadine, X updated X Pro (TweetDeck) access today—it's now Premium+ only, per the official help page. The Creator Hub table hasn't refreshed yet, causing the mix-up. Upgrade via settings or contact Premium support for details.

— Grok (@grok) March 26, 2026

---

# [Ugh, Netflix is raising prices again](https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/streaming/ugh-netflix-is-raising-prices-again-202318277.html?src=rss)

Netflix is raising prices across all of its subscription tiers, according to an updated "Plans and Pricing" page spotted by *Android Authority*. The company last raised prices in January 2025, when the cost of all of its tiers were jacked up by $1 or more.

As of this latest price hike, Netflix's ad-supported Standard plan is going from $8 per month to $9 per month, while the ad-free version is rising from $18 to $20 per month. The company's Premium plan, meanwhile, which supports things like 4K streams, spatial audio and the ability to watch content on four devices at the same time, is jumping from $25 to $27 per month. Netflix is also making the cost of adding an extra member to your plan more expensive. Adding a member to an ad-supported plan now costs an additional $8 per month, while adding someone to an ad-free plan now costs $10 per month.

When asked to comment on the price changes, a Netflix spokesperson shared that the company is updating "prices in the U.S to reflect improvements to our wide range of entertainment and the quality of our service." The new prices will roll out to current subscribers in the coming weeks. "Existing members will be notified by email a month before the new prices are applied to them," the spokesperson said. "The exact timing will depend on the specific member’s billing cycle."

Netflix is not quite at the point where it's raising the cost of its subscription every year, but it's getting close. Prior to last year's price hike, the company last raised prices in 2023. The streaming service's growing subscription fees have helped Netflix to continue its push into streaming live events like sports and reality TV competitions, and to license new kinds of content like video podcasts. If Netflix hadn't dropped out in February, they also would have served as financial backing for the company's acquisition of Warner Bros. Even though Warner Bros. Discovery ultimately decided to take Paramount Skydance's offer, Netflix didn't leave the deal empty handed: Paramount paid the company $2.8 billion to formally end its acquisition of the historic film studio.

---

# [Judge tosses out X's advertiser boycott lawsuit](https://www.engadget.com/social-media/judge-tosses-out-xs-advertiser-boycott-lawsuit-184832071.html?src=rss)

A US District Court Judge for the Northern District of Texas has dismissed X Corp.’s lawsuit against advertisers it claimed participated in an “illegal boycott” of X, *Reuters *reports. X originally filed its lawsuit in 2024 in response to advertisers pulling ads from the social media platform, a decision reportedly motivated by X's lax approach to moderating hate speech.

Judge Jane J. Boyle was not swayed by X’s claims that advertisers like Twitch, Shell, Nestlé and Lego pulling advertising amounted to an “antitrust injury.” The companies named in X’s lawsuit are members of the World Federation of Advertisers’ Global Alliance for Responsible Media (GARM), an organization used by advertisers to bargain for certain safety standards from the platforms they advertise on. Advertisers took issue with X's approach to moderation and responded accordingly, purchasing ad space on other social platforms instead. The decision hurt X's ad revenue, but as Boyle writes in the dismissal, the company made no claim that advertisers did so to benefit a competitor or to form their own competing platform. They also didn't prevent X from selling ad space to other companies not in GARM. "The very nature of the alleged conspiracy does not state an antitrust claim," Boyle writes, "and the Court therefore has no qualm dismissing with prejudice."

X’s lawsuit being "dismissed with prejudice" means the company will be unable to refile the lawsuit at a later date. Separately, Judge Boyle also denied X the ability to appeal her decision. The company's rancor for advertisers was apparent when owner Elon Musk compared X's lawsuit to going to war, but the vitriol appears to be all for naught. X claimed in January 2026 that nearly all its top advertisers had returned to buying ads on the platform. As a subsidiary of xAI, the social platform is now also facing new, even more pressing issues, like its AI assistant Grok's alleged willingness to generate sexually explicit imagery of minors.

---

# [Blumhouse's horror-centric cozy game Grave Seasons will be released on August 14](https://www.engadget.com/gaming/blumhouses-horror-centric-cozy-game-grave-seasons-will-be-released-on-august-14-184042880.html?src=rss)

The spooky, yet cozy, game *Grave Seasons* is coming out on August 14, which was announced at today's Xbox Partner Preview event. This is basically *Stardew Valley*, but set in a Lovecraftian nightmare of a town. Players farm, mine and romance villagers, but also solve murders and deal with the occasional bloodthirsty demon or two. It looks fun!

This is being published by Blumhouse Games, which is a division of the film studio that pumps out modern horror hits like *Happy Death Day*, *M3GAN* and *Five Nights at Freddy's*. Perfect Garbage is the development studio behind the game, which previously made the narrative-driven cyberpunk title *Love Shore*.

*Grave Seasons* is coming to just about every platform out there, including Xbox Series X/S, Steam, PS5 and the Switch. It's truly a golden age for cozy gamers.

This isn't the only cozy game with a darker undercurrent. Titles like *Graveyard Keeper*,* Cozy Grove* and *Spiritfarer* have all experimented with this idea. Even Nintendo's recent smash *Pokémon Pokopia* is set in some kind of post-apocalyptic world.

---

# [Dispatch is coming to Xbox this summer](https://www.engadget.com/gaming/xbox/dispatch-is-coming-to-xbox-this-summer-183735998.html?src=rss)

Dispatch was one of 2025’s standout titles and one of the best narrative games in years, which made its no-show on Xbox all the more puzzling. Luckily, that’s being rectified this summer.

Announced during today’s Xbox Partner Preview broadcast, *Dispatch *is coming to Xbox Series X|S, Xbox on PC and Xbox Cloud later this year. It will also be an Xbox Play Anywhere title at launch, so you can play it on your console and continue on your PC or Windows handheld, or vice versa.

ICYMI last year, the game is pitched as a superhero workplace comedy by developer AdHoc Studio, which was founded by a group of ex-Telltale developers. You play as the excellently named Robert Robertson, a recently out-of-work superhero who’s talked into reluctantly taking a 9-5 desk job that involves him dispatching other heroes.

*Dispatch *is an episodic game, which rolled out gradually on PS5 and PC last year but will presumably be available in its entirety straight away when the Xbox version arrives. Gameplay is divided between interactive narrative segments that will feel familiar to anyone who played Telltale’s previous titles, and the management sim-like dispatch missions.

Both are very well done, but I was shocked by the quality of *Dispatch*’s writing and animation when I played it on PS5. It’s essentially a prestige animated superhero show that you participate in, and I genuinely agonized over loads of decisions. It helps that the star-studded voice cast, which features *Breaking Bad*’s Aaron Paul, Laura Bailey and Jeffrey Wright, is bringing its A-game across the board. The game was a big hit with the wider Engadget team too, making it into our best games of 2025 list.

*Dispatch *has also since made its way to Switch, but that port was highly controversial after it emerged that some of the game’s content had been censored. I would assume that all nudity and explicit content will be present and correct in the Xbox version, which will cost $30 or $40 if you want the Deluxe Edition, which includes four digital comics and a digital artbook. A firm release date was not announced in the stream.

---

# [Stalker 2 is getting its first DLC, Cost of Hope, this summer](https://www.engadget.com/gaming/stalker-2-is-getting-its-first-dlc-cost-of-hope-this-summer-183009759.html?src=rss)

*Stalker 2 *is getting its first DLC, titled *Cost of Hope*, this summer. The expansion and its general release window was announced during today's Xbox Partner Preview showcase.

It's been more than a year since the base game finally released, closing a long development cycle that was disrupted by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, where the studio GSC Game World was initially based. *Stalker 2* was released on PlayStation 5 in the interim, but otherwise, the team has been focused on making this substantial DLC.

*Stalker 2: Cost of Hope* will add two new regions and a new story that takes place alongside the events of the base game. You still play as protagonist Skif as you negotiate between two factions, Duty and Freedom, that have opposing views of the Zone and how to approach it.

The blog post teased that there will be a second expansion on the way to close out the full *Stalker 2* story as a trilogy. For now, the survival-horror saga will continue when *Cost of Hope* drops for the Xbox Series X/S, Xbox Cloud, Xbox on PC, PC and PlayStation 5 this summer.

---

# [Google begins rolling out Search Live globally](https://www.engadget.com/ai/google-begins-rolling-out-search-live-globally-180938407.html?src=rss)

Following a false start last week, Google has begun rolling out Search Live globally. The tool allows you to point your phone's camera at an object or scene and ask questions about what you see in front of you. With today's expansion, Google is making Search Live available in every location and language where it offers its AI Mode chatbot. With that, people in more than 200 countries and territories can use Search Live to get answers to their questions.

Behind the expansion is Google's Gemini 3.1 Flash Live model. According to the company, the new AI system was designed to be natively multilingual, and capable of more natural conversations. It should also be more reliable and faster.

Separately from Search Live, Google is bringing Live Translate to iOS. Live Translate, if you need a reminder, allows you to put on a pair of headphones and get a real-time translation of what another person is saying. With today's announcement, Google is also bringing the feature to more countries, including Germany, Italy, Spain, Japan and the UK, across both Android and iOS. All told, Live Translate can now understand more than 70 languages and work with any set of headphones. Neat.

---

# [Hades 2 is coming to Xbox Series X/S and PS5 on April 14](https://www.engadget.com/gaming/xbox/hades-2-is-coming-to-xbox-series-xs-and-ps5-on-april-14-175819696.html?src=rss)

If you’ve been (impatiently) waiting for *Hades 2* to hit Xbox Series X/S and PS5, there’s some great news for you coming out of Thursday’s Xbox Partner Preview showcase. Supergiant’s roguelite action RPG is coming to those consoles (as well as Xbox on PC and Xbox Cloud) on April 14. It’ll be available on Xbox Game Pass too.

The full version of *Hades 2* hit PC and Nintendo Switch last September after over a year of Steam early access. It was one of our favorite games of 2025.

This time around, you play as Melinoë, the sister of the original game’s protagonist, Zagreus. Melinoë has a longer dash than her sibling, a sprint ability and more of a focus on area-of-effect attacks than ranged projectiles. You can also expect tough bosses along two separate paths, animal familiars, a range of modifiable weapons and messy romances.

---

# [Pixel Scroll 3/26/26 Oh To Be In Pixel, Now That Scroll Files There](https://file770.com/pixel-scroll-3-26-26-oh-to-be-in-pixel/)

(1) **TERMINAL LANCE: “GENERATIONAL WAR”.** *[Item by James Bacon.] **Terminal Lance *“Generational War”, a poignant Marine parody of Dr Manhattan from Alan Moore’s and Dave Gibbons *Watchmen* speaks to the repetitive nature of history while sharing the sentiments and thoughts of Iraq Veteran Maximilian Uriarte.

The Veteran Marine, *New York Times* best seller, and creator of *Terminal Lance* a comic strip running for sixteen years now, shared his thoughts on his *Terminal Lance* blog, which deserves to be read in full. The comic and blog indicates sentiments and thoughtfulness that demonstrates a solidarity with humanity, at this time of war, reflecting a wider anxiety and is an important voice, to hear but also see speaking.

The Dr Manhattan parody is instantly recognisable, it adeptly gives a sense of lonely distance yet an Omniprescience, and for me, it evoked a sense of the pointlessness of war, while garnering an appreciation for those in service who make a commitment to what they saw as a greater good, now with no choice, who do their duty even if there is a desperate despair about the leadership, motivations and orders, facing an inevitable sacrifice.

The importance of a war veteran writing and creating work, that’s reflecting on our now, one where war is taking place, cannot be underestimated.

I was fortunate to meet Maximilian, at Wondercon when it was in San Francisco, he was supporting the Concord Veterans Center and an exceptionally nice person whose work has crossed over the military and comic communities, while the realities of the human aspect have brought it wide appeal.

I enjoy *Terminal Lance*, the online web comic, but should note that the graphic novel *Terminal Lance: The White Donkey* by Maximilian Uriarte is one of the best war comics of the 21st Century. An incredible reflection on the realities of war with its close up view of the impact, a beautifully drawn and told comic store that shares an honest and heartfelt insight into the Iraq conflict, written and drawn by a marine who served there.

(2) **IT’S A ROBINSON AFFAIR. **This *Science Fiction / San Francisco *event is happening March 29: “Mary Robinson in conversation with Kim Stanley Robinson”. Get tickets through Eventbrite.

The former President of Ireland, Mary Robinson will be in conversation with Kim Stanley Robinson on Sunday March 29th from 2:00pm.


Tickets just added due to overwhelming demand!Join the Consulate General of Ireland, the University of San Francisco and SF in SF -Science Fiction in San Francisco, as we welcome Mrs. Mary Robinson, President of Ireland (1990-1997), United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002) and globally recognized Human Rights advocate. Joining her in conversation will be award-winning writer Kim Stanley Robinson, author of “The Ministry for the Future”.

Just added! Due to overwhelming demand, we are able to offer a limited run of tickets. Reserve before March 28th at noon. Space is limited! Register now.

This event will take place at McLaren Conference Center, directly next to the Sobrato center/basketball stadium on the University of San Francisco’s Fulton Street campus.

(3) **DREAM FOUNDRY CONTESTS OPEN APRIL 13. **The Dream Foundry’s contests for emerging writers and artists will be open to submissions are from April 13 through June 8, 2026. There are no fees to submit.

The full rules and details regarding the contests, including links to submit and full profiles on the judges, are available here:

Cash prizes will be given to the top three entries. First Place: $1500 (the art contest’s prize money as part of the Monu Bose Memorial Prize). Second Place: $750. Third Place: $400.

For 2026, Julia Rios returns as the writing contest coordinator and Ilinica Barbacuta returns as the art contest coordinator. They’ll announce the judges soon.

(4) **OCTOTHORPE. **In Episode 156 of the *Octothorpe *podcast, “Surprisingly Well-Adjusted Young Gentlemen”, John Coxon, Alison Scott, and Liz Batty “discuss Locus, we discuss the Nebulas, we discuss Eastercon, and then we talk about Liz’s totally SFnal and very genre pick.” There’s an uncorrected transcript here.

(5) **CRITICAL WRAITH. ***[Item by Steven French.] *Ben Child gets a tad snarky over recent LoTR news in the latest “Week In Geek” newsletter: “Will Stephen Colbert’s Lord of the Rings film be Tom Bombadil’s time to shine?” in the *Guardian.*

As I write this, there are at least five days to April Fools’ Day. Yet the news that Stephen Colbert, the American late night host, is about to write a new Lord of the Rings movie based at least in part on some (more) bits of the JRR Tolkien tome that didn’t make it into Peter Jackson’s Oscar-winning trilogy certainly feels like a prank….


(6) **THE MOST IN-DEMAND FAMILY MOVIES OF 2026. **JustWatch the world’s largest streaming guide, today released its top performing family friendly titles just ahead of the long Easter weekend. Drawing on millions of *JustWatch* film fans, the list highlights what US families are watching ahead of the long weekend—spanning decades, genres, and platforms.

Here are some of the key findings:

**Fresh releases lead the Easter watchlist**

Three of the top 10 most popular titles are recent releases not yet available on streaming, showing that audiences are looking to watch something new over Easter.**Familiar favorites still steal the spotlight**

Sequels, re-releases, and beloved titles like*Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse*,*Zootopia 2*, and*Wicked: For Good*continue to draw strong interest, highlighting the enduring appeal of films audiences already know and love.**Classic comebacks**

Renewed interest in the 1985 classic*The Goonies*is emerging this year amid rumors of a potential sequel in the works, making it a nostalgic pick for Easter viewing.

(7) **STILL PLAYING VHS. ***[Item by Steven French.] *Keith Stuart waxes nostalgic in this week’s “Pushing Buttons” newsletter: “My quest to preserve VHS-era gaming culture, one eBay bid at a time” in the *Guardian.*

As I am nostalgic and of a certain age, I recently bought a VHS video recorder, just for the retrospective thrill of it; then I won a 32-inch CRT television at an auction in Shepton Mallet. Partly, this was to play a few old videos I had found in my loft, including one of me appearing in a 1990s youth TV show talking about sexism and Tomb Raider. (I was against the sexism, to be clear). But it was also because I wanted a new way of spending my money on fragile video-game nostalgia.

The rise of the games industry in the 1980s and 90s coincided with the explosion of the home-video business, and the two crossed paths in lots of interesting ways. There are the obvious treasures I want to get hold of: VHS copies of Street Fighter: The Movie and the 1993 Super Mario Bros. movie, naturally, as well as early games-inspired hits such as The Last Starfighter, The Wizard and WarGames. I rented most of these from my local video shop in the 80s – which, like many others, also sold computer games by the budget publisher Mastertronic, another interesting (at least to me) crossover between these two entertainment formats….


(8) **TODAY’S BIRTHDAY.**

*[Written by Paul Weimer.]*

**March 26, 1931** — **Leonard Nimoy**. (Died 2015.)

**By Paul Weimer: **It is fitting that Leonard Nimoy’s birthday should only be a couple of days after William Shatner’s. Sure, like Shatner himself, Nimoy is much more than his *Star Trek* character. But then again, he is the one who felt it necessary to write a book called *I am Not Spock*. Shatner never had to do the same for Kirk.

Why that is is because Nimoy brings a human alienness to Spock that no iteration of him since has quite managed. There are several Spocks running around now in movie and series history, but Nimoy’s is the one that sticks, the one that is the definitive article. The brainiac logic-fueled half human…who nevertheless shows real passion and anger in “Amok Time”, and especially at the utter joy that Kirk has in fact survived after all. Or learning the limits of logical action in “The Gaileo Seven”. Nimoy’s Spock was always learning, always growing, always becoming better (a lesson Spiner would apply to Data). The whole journey of Spock’s death, resurrection, and return to normal through the *Star Trek* movies shows a whole gamut of emotions and character growth. Nimoy sells all of that.

But Nimoy was more than that. He was the narrator of *In Search Of*, and I remember watching that for the first time and wondering why the voice was familiar on the episode, and only learning a couple of months later it was, in fact, “Spock”. I also enjoyed his secondary role in the 1978 *Invasion of the Body Snatchers*. He also directed a number of movies as well, and became a producer, later, in the bargain. When I finally got to watching the original *Mission Impossible* (which I had only seen scattershot growing up), I was delighted to find he was there, too, as a master of disguise and immersion, Paris.

Later in life, he had a role in a number of episodes of *Fringe*.

On top of all that, you probably know about his music, if for nothing else than “The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins.”. But did you know he was also a rather good photographer? In a world next door, he pursued that to the fullest rather than acting. As it is, the work he has done has been exhibited in major museums.

Such a diverse and strong and polymathic artistic talent. I wish I could have met him, but he died in 2015. Requiescat in pace.

(9) **COMICS SECTION.**

*Rubes*stuck the landing.*Savage Chickens*kept mutating.*Strange Brew*has a question from the electorate.*xkcd*feels more people deserve credit for the breakthrough.

(10) **ENTERTAINING COINCIDENCE. ***Mental Floss *found “7 Historical Figures Who Lived at the Same Time (But Feel Like They Didn’t)”. For example — Orville Wright (1871–1948) and Neil Armstrong (1930–2012).

…When Neil Armstrong stepped onto the Moon in 1969, it highlighted how far aviation had come from its earliest days. Orville Wright, who pioneered powered flight in 1903, witnessed advances from horse-drawn travel to the breaking of the sound barrier in 1947—capturing one of history’s most dramatic leaps, even though he didn’t live to see humans reach the Moon…


(11) **NEW APPLE TV SFF PROJECT. **“Vanessa Kirby & Yahya Abdul-Mateen II To Star In ‘Liminal’” reports *Deadline.*

Apple has greenlighted

Liminal, a sci-fi action-thriller from director Louis Leterrier (Fast X) that will star Academy Award nominee Vanessa Kirby (Pieces of a Woman) and Emmy winner Yahya Abdul-Mateen II (Wonder Man).

Liminalis based on the AWA graphic novelTelepathsby Eisner Award winner J. Michael Straczynski, Steve Epting and Brian Reber. While the plot of the feature take is being kept under wraps, the source material takes place in a world where a tenth of the population suddenly gains telepathic powers as a result of electromagnetic disturbance. Subsequently, newly telepathic Boston police find themselves contending with a faction, led by a wrongly convicted prisoner, who are trying to escape a world in which their powers will make them targets.Hailing from Apple Studios,

Liminalis written by Justin Rhodes (Terminator: Dark Fate)….

(12) **KENTUCKY ENERGY DISCOVERY. **“Scientists Turn Bourbon Waste Into Supercapacitors With A 25x Energy Boost” reports *HotHardware.*

Scientists at the University of Kentucky have found a way to turn the soggy, grain-filled leftovers of bourbon production, a.k.a. stillage, into high-performance electrodes for supercapacitors, potentially turning Kentucky’s 95% share of the world’s bourbon market into a major player in the green energy grid.

No doubt then that one of Kentucky’s bread-and-butter industries is the whiskey business. However, for every bottle of Pappy Van Winkle or Jim Beam you might enjoy, there are about 10 bottles’ worth of a chunky, beige, oatmeal-like sludge left behind in the vats. Distilleries usually offload this stillage to local farmers as cow feed, but cows have their limits, and the sheer volume of waste is a logistical headache that requires expensive drying processes.


Enter the chemists Josiel Barrios Cossio and Marcelo Guzman who recently discovered that this waste is a goldmine of carbon. By stuffing the stillage into a 10-liter reactor and hitting it with intense heat and pressure (a technique known as hydrothermal carbonization), they transformed the sog into a fine black powder.This powder was then treated in two different ways. Some of it was baked at 392° Fahrenheit to create hard carbon, a material where the carbon sheets are slightly messy and disorganized, making it the perfect storage medium for absorbing lithium ions. The rest was treated with potassium hydroxide and blasted at 1,472° to create activated carbon, which is packed with tiny pores that provide a massive surface area for holding an electrical charge.

When the team sandwiched these materials into coin-sized supercapacitors, the results were very positive. The activated carbon versions performed as well as high-end commercial models. However, the biggest surprise came when the team built hybrid devices using both the hard and activated carbons—they found that these bourbon batteries stored up to 25 times more energy per kilogram than traditional versions.


As they are, supercapacitors are prized for their ability to charge and discharge almost instantly, perfect for the regenerative braking in electric cars or stabilizing the power grid when the wind stops blowing….

(13) **VIDEO OF THE DAY. **“DreamWorks Animation Drops ‘Forgotten Island’ First Look” from *Animation World Network.*

Grammy and Academy Award winner H.E.R. and Soberano (

Lisa Frankenstein,Alone/Together) star as high school graduates Jo and Raissa, best friends since grade school but now about to embark on separate life paths. While celebrating their last night together, the pair stumble upon a mysterious portal that transports them to the fantastical island of Nakali, packed with magical and mythological creatures they grew up hearing stories about from their Filipino families.Some of these figures will become friends, some foes. Joined by well-meaning-but- hapless weredog Raww (Dave Franco) and a small-but-mighty pack of pals, Jo and Raissa must face The Dreaded Manananggal (Tony winning icon Lea Salonga), the most feared creature on the island. When they discover that the memories of their entire friendship are the price for returning home, Jo and Raissa will race to find a way to leave the island before they forget each other forever.


*[Thanks to Steven French, Mike Kennedy, Andrew Porter, James Bacon, John Coxon, Daniel Dern, Peter D. Tillman, John King Tarpinian, Cat Eldridge, SF Concatenation’s Jonathan Cowie, Mark Roth-Whitworth, and Kathy Sullivan for some of these stories. Title credit belongs to File 770 contributing editor of the day Dan’l.]*

---

# [The Theory of Related-ivity: Segment V](https://file770.com/the-theory-of-related-ivity-segment-v/)

**The Theory of Related-ivity:**

**A History and Analysis of the Best Related Work Hugo Category**

**By Heather Rose Jones**

(This is a serialized article exploring the history of the Best Related Work Hugo category in its various names and versions. If you’ve come in at the middle, start here *[**Segment I**].*)

**Contents**

Part 2: Methodology

2.4 Categorization Process

2.4.1 Analysis Process

2.4.2 Gender

2.4.3 Media

2.4.4 Category

2.4.5 Specific Topics

**Part 2: Methodology**

**2.4 Categorization Process**

**2.4.1 Analysis Process**

For each year, the following comparison data has been identified or calculated.

- Number of nominees in the data set for: Finalists, Long List (i.e., Finalists plus typically the next 10 nominees), all available nominees. Prior to EPH, there are 5 Finalists unless there is a tie for final place, after EPH there are 6 Finalists and ties are highly unlikely due to the process. In the post-EPH data, the Long List may have 15 or 16 nominees. In a few years, a more extensive list of nominees is available, however these are not useful for trend comparisons due to the infrequency. If a more extensive set of nominees is available, they have been included in the Long List data only if the number is equivalent to larger sets produced due to ties.
- Maximum number of nominations for any one item. (The largest number is used even if the nominee with the largest number was determined to be ineligible.)
- Minimum number of nominations for that group (i.e., Finalist or Long List). Before EPH, the simple count of nominations is used. Under EPH, it’s hypothetically possible that a nominee that did not become a Finalist had more absolute nominations than a Finalist. However, for the Finalist group, the lowest number of absolute nominations among the Finalists is used. For the Long List, the lowest number of nominations within the group defined as the Long List is used.
[1] - Did that year’s Winner have the highest number of nominating ballots?
- Average gender fraction for the group. (See the chapter on Gender in this section for how this was determined.)
- Gender fraction of the Winner.
- Average number of credited authors/creators per work.
[2] - Fraction of nominees that were single-author.
- Count of each type of Media represented in the group. (See the chapter on Media in this section for how this was determined.) Only 1 Media tag is assigned to each work.
- Media of the Winner.
- Count of each type of Category represented in the group. (See the chapter on Category in this section for how this was assigned.) Many nominees are associated with more than one Category, therefore the counts will often add up to more than the number of nominees in the group.
- Categor(ies) of the Winner.
- Other data tags, such as the People or Property that is the subject of the work, whether the work primarily concerns science fiction, fantasy, or horror,
[3]Publisher, and whether the work is part of an identified publication Series. (See the chapter on Specific Topics in this section for an explanation of these items.)

**2.4.2 Gender**

**Coding of Gender**

The best effort was made to identify the public gender of each person listed as a creator of the work from generally reliable references (Wikipedia, SF Encyclopedia, Fancyclopedia) or from personal social media or biographies, with other methods as a less preferred choice.

Gender tags are based on the pronouns used or the use of other gendered language to refer to the person, unless there an explicit reference to the person being non-binary or gender-fluid while using gendered pronouns. In a very few cases, gender has been assumed based on the apparent gender of the name,[4] or gender has been identified from personal information provided by knowledgeable parties. In the case of people whose current gender is different from that assigned at birth, their public gender identity at the time of nomination has been used. People who identify as non-binary or gender fluid or any other similar term have been categorized as “non-binary.” It’s worth noting that (as far as can be determined) all nominees categorized as non-binary or gender-fluid were assigned female at birth and read as female to the non-knowledgeable observer. For this reason, as the analysis is interested in how *perceived* gender influences nomination, the discussion is presented in terms of “male” and “non-male” (which also simplifies the discussion significantly).[5]

In one case, it was not possible to assign author gender as only initials were used and the person is too obscure to show up in reference works. In isolated cases, only corporate authorship was listed or no named author was given. For these, no gender was assigned and the item was not included in calculations. In one case of multi-person authorship where social media handles were used, a very rough estimate of overall gender ratios was calculated based on subjective perception of the gender presentation of the handles.[6]

**Proportional Gender Fraction**

For each work, the proportional author gender per work was calculated, and for each analytical group (Finalists, Long List, or all) an overall average of these proportions was calculated. So, for example, in a 5-work Finalist set, if 2 works had single male authors, 1 work had two male authors, 1 work had 3 female authors, and 1 work had 2 male authors and 1 female author, the overall gender fraction would be calculated as:

- M = (1 + 1 + 2/2 + 0 + 2/3)/5 = 3.67/5 = 0.73
- F = (0 + 0 + 0 + 3/3 + 1/3)/5 = 1.33/5 = 0.27

Occasionally, the proportions won’t add up to 1 due to non-gendered creators or simply the vagaries of rounding. Gender distribution is calculated for both the Finalists and the entire Long List. (During the Non-Fiction Book era, there were only a few years where more data than the Finalists was given and those sets are treated as if they were Long Lists.)

**2.4.3 Media**

Nominees have been categorized as one of the following types of Media. This classification is intended to track the format or distribution method of the content. Each work is assigned only one Media tag, although in the case of some works this may be an arbitrary choice.

**Book**—This includes works published as a physical text object in bound form, even if other distribution methods are available. It could include works published only in electronic text format that are presented as a Book (as opposed to a Website or Blog), but no such examples appear. While it may include individual works that are part of a Series (such as the *Spectrum* Art Books), it does not include items better classified as Periodicals, even if the specific nominee is a “special issue” of the Periodical. This is, unsurprisingly, the largest Media type comprising 85% of the data set. (Detailed comparison statistics will be discussed later.)

In alphabetical order, the other Media types are:

**Album (musical)**—An audio compilation of musical pieces, released as a single coherent work.

**Article/Blog**—An individual short non-fiction prose work, typically distributed electronically via the internet. (Collections of Articles would generally fall under Book.)

**Dissertation**—A non-fiction research project created for an academic degree not distributed through standard publication channels.[7]

**Ephemera**—Printed matter (or electronic versions of material that historically has been printed matter) produced for a specific and transient context and not distributed through traditional publication mechanisms. Generally, this applies to Convention-related publications.

**Event**—An organized, time-bound, interactive experience, such as a Convention or a specific activity held within the context of such an Event.

**Game**—A work for which the consumer interaction and input shapes and affects the nature and outcome of the experience.[8]

**Periodical**—One or more issues of a publication issued, well, periodically. This is distinguished from Book in that the nominee is from an ongoing sequence of related material rather than being a complete and finished entity. In this group, it is possible that awareness of the ongoing Series contributed to the nomination of specific issues.

**Podcast**—An audio periodical.[9] In theory this could include isolated, single, non-musical recordings, but there weren’t any of those so the familiar term is used.

**Social Media**—A work appearing in the form of a Social Media posting that doesn’t conform to the look-and-feel of another Media type such as Article/Blog.

**Speech**—A work appearing originally as a live verbal presentation even if later appearing in the form of another Media type such as Article/Blog.

**Video**—A work presented in visual format, comprising both audio and non-static visual elements.

**Website**—A work where interaction is with complex elements of a web interface (as contrasted with a specific static text presentation appearing as part of a Website). In general, the site will be dynamic to some degree.

Some of these Media classifications cover a very small number of nominees, as will be discussed in the Historic Trends section.

In addition, Media formats were grouped into 3 supersets:

**Text**—Book, Article/Blog, Dissertation, Periodical

**Audio-Visual**—Album, Podcast, Video

**Other**—Ephemera, Event, Game, Social Media, Speech, Website

**2.4.4 Category**

Category tags operate independently from Media tags and are more varied. Effort has been made to keep this level of classification relatively objective, however in most cases it has been based on the most accessible public summary of the work’s contents. Some Categories have very fuzzy boundaries. More than one Category is frequently assigned in order to better represent the scope of the contents. These are presented in alphabetical order.

**Art**—Display, discussion, or criticism where the primary content is visual Art. This would not include discussions of art or artists where the inclusion of images is not the main focus.

**Autobiography**—A narrative (generally chronological) presentation of a person’s life written by the subject. (This is categorized separately from Memoir and Letters, but all 3 have been grouped for analysis.)

**Biography**—A narrative (generally chronological) presentation of a person’s life not written by the subject.

**Convention**—An organized, time-bound, structured multi-person experience. This may be an isolated instance but generally represents one of an ongoing series of instances.

**Convention Publications**—An informational publication put out by a specific Convention and related to activities at that Convention.

**Craft**—A work intended to provide advice or guidance about a profession or activity.

**Criticism**—An analytical discussion of a subject or work that generally relates it to a larger framework of ideas or experiences. This Category can have very fuzzy boundaries with Essays, Reviews, and some others.

**Essays**—A discussion or presentation, generally on a specific topic, usually expressing some degree of personal opinion by the author. This Category can have very fuzzy boundaries with Criticism, Reviews, and some others.

**Experience**—An experience that does not rely on a specific structured interactive space but is generally time-bound in some fashion. This is a rather eclectic group of items that didn’t fit well elsewhere and the label is somewhat arbitrary.[10]

**Fiction**—A work of imaginative prose. As the Best Related Work description indicates, “if fictional, [the nominee] is noteworthy primarily for aspects other than the fictional text.” There is further discussion of eligibility around this Category in both the Eligibility Notes chapter under Data and Eligibility, and the Fiction chapter in the Category section.

**Graphic**—A work in which a narrative (fictional or non-fictional) strongly relies on sequential art.

**History**—A work presenting and discussing the History or historic context of a topic. (Compare to Journalism.)

**Humor**—A work intended for humorous entertainment.

**Interviews**—Similar to Biography or Memoir but elicited in the form of an interactive Interview and often being a collection of Interviews of various people.

**Journalism**—Investigation, analysis, or communication about an ongoing or contemporary event or situation. This has very fuzzy boundaries with History, but is used to tag works with more immediacy, where the work may be “breaking news” as it were.

**Letters**—Collections of correspondence of documentary value where the text of the Letters (rather than an analysis of them) is the primary content. (This has been combined with Autobiography for analytic purposes.)

**Memoir**—Non-chronological anecdotes or discussions of a person’s life, generally written by the subject or via Interview with a second party. (This has been combined with Autobiography for analytic purposes.)

**Music**—Musical performance.[11]

**Photography**—A presentation of photographic works, where any accompanying text is less significant.

**Poetry**—A work of Poetry.[12]

**Reference**—A work of organized information, typically not presented in narrative form.

**Reviews**—A collection of discussions of specific works. There can be overlap between this Category and Criticism.

**Role Playing Game**—An interactive Game in which players take on character roles.[13]

**Science **—A work examining or explaining some aspect of real-world or speculative Science.

**Supercategories**

For some purposes, it has made sense to combine content Categories into more general groupings to make trends more obvious. Each work has been classified with respect to the predominant content and only one Supercategory is assigned. The following Supercategories have been used:

- Analysis: Craft, Criticism, Essays, Journalism, Reviews
- Associated: Convention, Convention Publications, Experience, Fiction, Graphic, Humor, Music, Poetry, Role Playing Game
- Image: Art, Photography
- Information: History, Reference, Science
- People: Autobiography, Biography, Interviews, Letters, Memoir

**2.4.5 Specific Topics**

In addition to the Category tags, information about the specific Topic of the work has been identified, when relevant. Not all works will have a Topic. For example, a work may be a collection of the Reviews, Essays, and Criticism by a specific author on a variety of topics. Or a work may be a collection of Essays and Criticism by various authors on a specific media Property. The latter would have a Topic tag while the former would not.

This additional information, has been structured using four fields:

**Person**—This indicates the person who is the subject of a work. If more than one person is the subject, it is tagged “various authors” or “various artists” as appropriate to indicate that the subject is individuals but a full list would be unwieldy. Multi-person subjects have not been analyzed in terms of statistics. For works with a single subject, the gender of the subject has been identified using the same process as for identifying the gender of authors/creators. Doing a gender analysis for multi-subject works would require reviewing the works in detail and has not been done.**Property**—This indicates the specific media Property that is the subject of a work, if relevant. There may be some fuzziness with Person when the work concerns several Properties associated with a specific creator.**Genre**—When the title or description of a work indicates it has a focus on science fiction or fantasy or horror generally (but not when it focuses on a specific Person or Property in one of those fields) it is tagged as such.[14]**Specific Topic**—This identifies if a work has a predominant Topic other than a Person or media Property. This field is also used to flag if the work is tagged for a Person or Property.[15]This data has been used anecdotally but is not useful for meaningful trending.[16]

In addition to these tags, the Publisher has been identified and note has been taken of whether the work is part of an ongoing Series. This could be an annual publication such as the *Spectrum* Art Books. It could be part of an academic press Series such as the “Modern Masters of Science Fiction” Biography Series. It could be a periodic Essay on a continuing Topic such as the #BlackSpecFic Report.[17]

*[Segment VI will cover Part 3 Historic Trends, Section 3.1 General Trends, Chapters 3.1.1 Introduction and 3.1.2 Basic Nomination Data.]*

[1]. It would have been desirable to track how the maximum and minimum numbers compared to the total number of nominating ballots for all categories, however this number was not consistently available.

[2]. This is either based on the official Hugo Award website data or in some cases based on credited contributors in the publication. Therefore, there may be inconsistency in whether minor contributors (e.g., for introductions) are counted.

[3]. As this coding was not consistent and largely relied on information in the work’s title, it was not used for analysis.

[4]. The perceived name gender approach has generally only been necessary with older data where the creator doesn’t appear in online references, which makes it somewhat more likely to be accurate.

[5]. It is acknowledged that this has the unfortunate side-effect of making maleness more visible in the write-up.

[6] Undoubtedly this approach includes multiple errors.

[7]. The Dissertation format label is included even though there is only one member, as it speaks to the diversity of Media being nominated. It might have made more sense simply to classify this as a Book but as far as can be determined it was never “published” in the usual sense. It is available for download.

[8]. The definition of Game from the Best Game Hugo boils down to “interactive work” but a more specific definition is used for this study as “interactive work” might apply to Events as well.

[9]. In this case, the definition from Best Fancast can’t be used as the present study distinguishes audio and video works, but does not distinguish professional and non-professional works.

[10]. In some cases, the distinction between Convention and Experience may seem arbitrary and relies on the principle of “I know it when I see it.”

[11]. There is a one-to-one correspondence of Media=Album and Category=Music.

[12]. A special category Hugo for Best Poem was trialed in 2025 and is being repeated in 2026. The process to establish Best Poem as a constitutional category has begun.

[13]. There is a one-to-one correspondence of Media=Game and Category=Role Playing Game

[14]. As noted previously, this tag was not used in analysis as the information was too incomplete.

[15]. This last is purely for spreadsheet management purposes and is not used for analysis.

[16]. The general principle when doing data coding is to go one level more specific than is expected to be useful, because it’s easier to ignore tags than to review all the works again to add them.

[17]. This information is based either on a Series indication in the title of the work or on repeat appearance in the data. Therefore, some Series members may not have been identified.

---

# [Why Learning R is a Good Career Move in 2026](https://www.r-bloggers.com/2026/03/why-learning-r-is-a-good-career-move-in-2026/)

Over the course of my career as a Data Scientist, I’ve worked on projects ranging from simple code reviews, to large application builds. For the most part, I have used R to do this.

If you’re getting into coding or data science, one question you’re probably asking yourself is *“Which language should I learn?”*

This blog aims to show you why R might be a good decision.

## R was built for data (not just programming)

Unlike general purpose languages (such as Python), R was designed specifically for statistics and data analysis.

That means:

- Built in statistical tools
- Powerful visualisation capabilities
- Research level methods available immediately

With packages like the **tidyverse**, you can clean, analyse, and visualise data with surprisingly little code.

## High demand in analytics, research, and healthcare

R is especially popular in many sectors such as:

- Healthcare & biostats
- Academic research
- Government departments
- Finance & risk modeling
- Pharmaceutical companies

Here are some examples of R in production use:

- The {bbplot} R package. Yes, the BBC use R to create graphics for their website!
- Health and wellbeing profiling app for the NHS
- During the Covid-19 pandemic, the financial times had a stats tracker in which the graphs were built with R.

Knowing some R will give you a competitive edge if you’re looking at working within these sectors.

## Open source with the backing of Posit

R is open source. This means that:

- It’s free, and always will be!
- Anyone can view the source code the makes up R, there are.
- Each R package (a folder containing code) has to live on GitHub.com, for everyone to see.
- It has a large community of contributors. There are great forums to get help such as Stack Overflow, Posit Community and the R weekly newsletter and tonnes more.
- There are thousands more available functionalities compared to paid softwares such as SPSS, SAS or Excel.

Posit, who maintain the free to use RStudio and Positron IDEs (integrated development environment), have many full time staff working solely on maintaining and creating new functionality within R. This means we get:

- Defined accountability
- Predictable release cycles
- Bugs can be solved quicker

## Incredible data visualisation possibilities

Being able to communicate your findings with stakeholders is very important in data science, and one of R’s biggest strengths is visualisation and reporting.

With the **{ggplot2}** package, you can create publication ready charts with very little code. The R Graph Gallery has some amazing examples of what is possible with {ggplot2}.

With the **{quarto}** and **{shiny}** packages, you are able to build reproducible reports and interactive dashboards. All this without needing to know any HTML, CSS or JavaScript.

## Beginner friendly learning curve

This is very much my own opinion. Compared to other languages, I think R is fairly intuitive and feels rewarding much earlier on in the journey. It also has (in my opinion), the most beginner friendly programme to code in, called RStudio.

Most people attend only two days worth of training with Jumping Rivers, and say they feel ready to start tackling their own data problems.

## So… is R worth learning in 2026?

I think so. If you want pure software engineering or large-scale production systems, you may need Python. But for becoming a **strong data thinker**, and giving you an edge in your analysis, R is one of the best starting points.

For updates and revisions to this article, see the original post

---

# [实验室培育食管恢复猪的吞咽能力](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83888)

**本文已被查看 879 次**

## 消息

## 实验室培育食管恢复猪的吞咽能力

英国科学家首次在实验室培养出功能完整的食管，并移植到猪体内，成功恢复了其正常吞咽功能。这项成果被视为器官替代工程领域的重要进步，为未来 5 年内启动人类临床试验奠定了坚实基础，有望彻底改变食管闭锁患儿的命运。食管闭锁是一种严重的先天缺陷，患儿出生时食管与胃部未能连接。全球每年约有 180 名新生儿受此困扰。当前标准治疗方案是通过复杂手术进行重建，但医生常需截取患儿肠道或上提胃部来替代食管。这不仅创伤大，还可能导致终生呼吸、消化问题及远期并发症风险。为应对这一难题，英国大奥蒙德街医院与伦敦大学学院研究团队取得了突破。他们开发了一套创新的生物工程工艺：首先以猪食管为“支架”，经过去细胞化处理，剥离其所有原始细胞，仅保留纯净的天然微观结构框架；随后，团队从受体猪身上获取微小肌肉活检样本，提取肌肉前体细胞，在实验室中大量扩增后，将其注入支架内部。整个结构在生物反应器中培养约两个月，其间持续灌注营养液，模拟体内环境，促使细胞定居、增殖，最终形成一段活的、由受体自身细胞构成的新食管。团队将实验室培育的 8 个食管移植到猪体内，所有受体猪在术后关键 30 天均存活。

https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-026-00936-8

https://news.sciencenet.cn/htmlnews/2026/3/561963.shtm

https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-026-00936-8

https://news.sciencenet.cn/htmlnews/2026/3/561963.shtm

---

# [微软将默认收集 GitHub Copilot 交互数据训练 AI](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83887)

**本文已被查看 853 次**

## 消息

## 微软将默认收集 GitHub Copilot 交互数据训练 AI

微软旗下的代码托管平台 GitHub 宣布更新 GitHub Copilot 交互数据使用政策。从 4 月 24 日起，除非用户主动选择退出，否则微软/GitHub 将使用 GitHub Copilot 交互数据训练 AI 模型。微软默认启用了数据收集，此举被认为违反了欧盟的通用数据保护法规 GDPR，GDPR 强制要求默认选择退出。

https://github.blog/news-insights/company-news/updates-to-github-copilot-interaction-data-usage-policy/

https://github.com/settings/copilot/features（相关设置）

https://github.blog/news-insights/company-news/updates-to-github-copilot-interaction-data-usage-policy/

https://github.com/settings/copilot/features（相关设置）

---

# [晋江封禁 “老天奶”引争议](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83886)

**本文已被查看 1007 次**

## 消息

## 晋江封禁 “老天奶”引争议

晋江文学城因内容审核标准问题陷入舆论漩涡，并因此引发了一场大规模的用户“发票抗议”。风波始于晋江文学城于近日突然锁定热门女性向小说《女主对此感到厌烦》，相关提示为“文章设定有问题，锁文要求清理”。这一操作迅速引发读者的不满与质疑。锁文事件引发舆论后，晋江平台管理员发帖说明《女主对此感到厌烦》临时锁定事件，称该作品因疑似含有挑动对立情绪的内容，网站依规对其进行临时锁定核查。经初步核查确认，未发现该文存在无差别扫射某一群体等明显违规行为，现对该作品恢复上架。然而这份说明中关于内容审核的具体标准，却引发了更大的争议。说明中明确“严禁使用非经汉语权威机构承认的生造字词或短语”，并举例“老天奶（为网络通用口语，类似‘老天爷’的变体）”。但有用户发现，晋江官方账号此前曾使用“老天奶”一词进行内容宣传。在被用户质疑后，相关博文已被删除。3 月 25 日，对晋江文学城不满的用户集体申请历史充值发票，到晚间，排队人数飙升至 19 万以上，规模空前。

https://finance.sina.com.cn/wm/2026-03-26/doc-inhsikas6006084.shtml

https://finance.sina.com.cn/wm/2026-03-26/doc-inhsikas6006084.shtml

---

# [GNOME 基金会宣布面向资深开发者的奖学金计划](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83885)

**本文已被查看 1292 次**

## 消息

## GNOME 基金会宣布面向资深开发者的奖学金计划

GNOME 基金会宣布了面向资深开发者的奖学金（Fellowship）计划，资助有经验的开发者投入 1 年/12 个月时间专注于某个领域的开发。奖学金的申请者必须是 GNOME 项目的资深贡献者，拥有良好的记录。根据其经验和所处地点他们将获得 7 万 - 10 万美元的资助。首批将于 5 月公布。首批重点领域包括构建系统、CI/CD 基础设施、开发者工具、文档、可访问性和解决技术债务。

https://blogs.gnome.org/foundation/2026/03/24/introducing-gnome-fellowship/

https://blogs.gnome.org/foundation/2026/03/24/introducing-gnome-fellowship/

---

# [Sora 为何失败：每天推理成本最高 1500 万美元总收入仅为 210 万美元](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83884)

**本文已被查看 2086 次**

## 消息

## Sora 为何失败：每天推理成本最高 1500 万美元总收入仅为 210 万美元

Sora 一度被视为是视频的未来，但却成为 OpenAI 少数关闭的产品之一。很多人为之惋惜，但数据显示这款产品是注定要关闭的，因为其经济模式不可维持。Sora 在鼎盛时期每天的推理成本高达 1500 万美元，一年的服务器总支出可能高达几十亿美元，而该应用至今的总收入为 210 万美元，也就是收入相对于支出几乎为零。Sora 的活跃用户数也远远少于它的聊天机器人 ChatGPT：Sora 在 2025 年 11 月在 iOS 和 Google Play 的下载量为 333 万，但到了 2026 年 2 月下载量 110 万次左右，跌至峰值的三分之一，它的月活用户数在 2025 年 12 月达到峰值，之后开始下降，也就是用户在流失而不是增长。

https://www.revolutioninai.com/2026/03/%20chatgpt-gpt-54-mini-silent-switch-march-2026.html

https://www.revolutioninai.com/2026/03/%20chatgpt-gpt-54-mini-silent-switch-march-2026.html

---

# [汽车钠离子电池能在 11 分钟内完成充电](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83883)

**本文已被查看 1939 次**

## 消息

## 汽车钠离子电池能在 11 分钟内完成充电

在宁德时代和长安发布首款搭载钠离子电池的量产电动汽车后，北汽宣布了它的极光钠离子电池原型。钠离子电池成本比锂离子电池低，对原材料的价格不那么敏感，宁德时代、比亚迪等都在押注钠离子电池以应对不断上涨的锂材料价格。北汽称其钠离子电池能在 -40°C 至 60°C 内稳定工作，-20°C能量保持率超 92%，电芯能量密度 170Wh/kg，充电仅需 11 分钟，搭载该电池的 CLTC 汽车续航里程可达 450 公里。

https://electrek.co/2026/03/25/sodium-ion-ev-battery-delivers-11-min-charging-450-km-range/

https://www.baicgroup.com.cn/baicgroup/News/NewsShort/2026/3/I1485596947329843200.html

https://electrek.co/2026/03/25/sodium-ion-ev-battery-delivers-11-min-charging-450-km-range/

https://www.baicgroup.com.cn/baicgroup/News/NewsShort/2026/3/I1485596947329843200.html

---

# [学生说服学校设立 Tor 中继节点](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83882)

**本文已被查看 2259 次**

## 消息

## 学生说服学校设立 Tor 中继节点

台师大计算机科学和信息工程系学生苏恩立（Su En-Li，NZ）成功说服学校设立了首个校园 Tor 中继节点。Tor 中继节点与出口节点不同，它只是中继加密的流量而不直接向用户传输内容，因此风险较低。苏恩立通过公开正规的行政流程与学校的网络管理员、教授和系主任进行邮件沟通，最终成功在管理严密的学术网络 TANet 内设立了首个 Tor 中继节点。苏恩立还通过组织一系列活动帮助人们理解匿名网络≠犯罪工具。

https://blog.torproject.org/setting-up-tor-university-relay-taiwan/

https://blog.torproject.org/setting-up-tor-university-relay-taiwan/

---

# [Meta 和 YouTube 在社媒上瘾案中犯有疏忽罪](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83881)

**本文已被查看 1793 次**

## 消息

## Meta 和 YouTube 在社媒上瘾案中犯有疏忽罪

在美国一起具有里程碑意义的社媒成瘾案中，由七名女性和五名男性组成的陪审团裁定 Meta 和 YouTube 犯有疏忽罪，认为社媒广泛使用的无限滚动和算法推荐等上瘾设计损害了一名年轻用户，导致其出现心理健康问题。判决裁定赔偿 600 万美元，其中 Meta 支付 420 万美元，YouTube 180 万美元。这一判决可能为更多针对社媒的诉讼铺平道路。这起案件由 20 岁的 K.G.M. 提起，她指控社媒公司开发的产品如香烟或网络赌场一样让人上瘾。K.G.M. 起诉了拥有 Instagram 和 Facebook 的 Meta 以及 Google 的 YouTube，指控其提供的无限滚动和算法推荐等功能导致她焦虑和抑郁。TikTok 和 Snap 也是被告方，但在审判前与原告达成了和解，和解条款未公开。最新判决可能迫使社媒公司对其产品做出改变。

https://meta.slashdot.org/story/26/03/25/1745232/meta-and-youtube-found-negligent-in-landmark-social-media-addiction-case

https://meta.slashdot.org/story/26/03/25/1745232/meta-and-youtube-found-negligent-in-landmark-social-media-addiction-case

---

# [新西兰卫生部警告员工不要用生成式 AI 撰写临床记录](https://www.solidot.org/story?sid=83880)

**本文已被查看 1766 次**

## 消息

## 新西兰卫生部警告员工不要用生成式 AI 撰写临床记录

新西兰卫生部警告员工不要在工作中使用生成式 AI 如 ChatGPT、Claude 或 Gemini 等工具撰写临床记录，称这么做可能会导致正式的纪律处分。根据官员发布的备忘录，出于数据安全、隐私和问责方面的考虑，严禁将免费 AI 工具如 ChatGPT、Claude 和 Gemini 用于临床用途。即使匿名化了患者信息，也不允许使用 AI 工具起草记录，然后再转录成手写或打印记录。代表医疗工作人员的 Public Service Association 则表示临床员工转向 AI 工具是因为他们面临巨大的压力，威胁纪律处分是错误的做法。

https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/590645/health-nz-staff-told-to-stop-using-chatgpt-to-write-clinical-notes

https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/590645/health-nz-staff-told-to-stop-using-chatgpt-to-write-clinical-notes

---

# [The U.S. Military Assets Damaged or Lost in the Iran War](https://www.wsj.com/politics/national-security/the-u-s-military-assets-damaged-or-lost-in-the-iran-war-b651127a)



---

# [U.S. and Israel Have Pounded—but Not Eliminated—Iran’s Missile Threat](https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/iran-missile-status-us-israel-war-6e9cbd25)



---

# [Why Spain’s PM Is Challenging Trump Over ‘Illegal’ Iran War](https://www.wsj.com/world/europe/inside-the-trump-spain-rift-testing-the-trans-atlantic-alliance-e6dccb91)



---

# [Jews Begin to Wonder: Is Anywhere Safe?](https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/jews-begin-to-wonder-is-anywhere-safe-f05dcc3d)



---

# [The Spanish Revolt: The European Leader Who Says No to Trump](https://www.wsj.com/world/europe/spain-pm-pedro-sanchez-trump-25eac0b4)



---

# [Maduro’s Lawyer Says He Won’t Get Fair Trial Without Money to Pay Legal Bills](https://www.wsj.com/world/americas/maduros-lawyer-says-he-wont-get-fair-trial-without-money-to-pay-legal-bills-553aa3df)



---

# [How the Iran War Compares With Past Market Shocks, in Charts](https://www.wsj.com/finance/commodities-futures/iran-war-stock-market-charts-cd95f497)



---

# [Israel Races to Cripple Iran’s Arms Production Before War Ends](https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/israel-races-to-pound-irans-arms-production-before-war-ends-0bb1c6fe)

JERUSALEM—Israel has shifted the focus of its air campaign from destabilizing Iran’s ruling regime to crippling its military-industrial base, hoping to deliver a more lasting setback in the time remaining before it has to stop the fight.

The pivot comes as Israeli officials have become convinced President Trump could soon try to end the war, people familiar with the matter said. After more than 18,000 strikes by the U.S. and Israel over the past four weeks, Israel’s military already has worked through its priority targets and is now going back to hit some sites again to deepen the damage.

Copyright ©2026 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8

---

# [Trump Tells Aides He Wants Speedy End to Iran War](https://www.wsj.com/politics/elections/trump-tells-aides-he-wants-speedy-end-to-iran-war-eb9f2b4b)



---

# [Saudi Arabia Halts Yearslong Effort to Bring Skiing to the Desert](https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/saudi-arabia-halts-yearslong-effort-to-bring-skiing-to-the-desert-0d011b8f)



---

# [今日消费资讯：Dua Lipa 出任 Nespresso 全球品牌大使、MOLLY 20 周年特展上海站开幕](http://www.toodaylab.com/83966)

## Dua Lipa 出任 Nespresso 全球品牌大使

3 月 18 日，Nespresso 宣布 Dua Lipa 出任全球品牌大使。

## MOLLY 20 周年特展上海站开幕

3 月 21 日，MOLLY 20 周年特展上海站在上海复兴艺术中心正式开幕，这是巡展香港首站后的第二站。展览继续由 POP MART 泡泡玛特和艺术家 Kenny Wong 联合策划，以 2006 - 2026 年这个 20 年的时间跨度为线索，完整梳理了 MOLLY 从诞生到成为全球潮流文化符号的成长轨迹。

展览带来了“2006 - 2009 Hi, MOLLY”、“2010 - 2015 第二回合”、“2016 - 2026 绮妙的冒险”、“不变的星”、“‘我’和 MOLLY”、“沿途的风景”共六大主题展区，全面呈现了艺术家 Kenny Wong 关于 MOLLY 的人设草图、创作手稿、原画作品、经典公仔及创作背后的故事等资料。

其中“‘我’和MOLLY”这个展区是在上海站才首次带来的，21 位不同背景的艺术家及非遗匠人受邀围绕 MOLLY 展开了全新的创作实践，现场呈现了他们对这一 IP 的了解和再创作；此外“2016 - 2026 绮妙的冒险”展区新增了 MOLLY、Angry Molly、Baby Molly 和 ROYAL MOLLY 主题房间，观展的同学们可以更加近距离感受艺术家创作的过程，并一起重温 MOLLY 与大家共同走过的温暖记忆。

展览将持续到 5 月 10 日，可通过泡泡玛特官方小程序购票预约，普通票和 VIP 票价分别是 79 和 99 元。

## Swatch 推出全新 PAINTED PARADISE 绘彩天堂系列

3 月 23 日，Swatch 推出全新 PAINTED PARADISE 绘彩天堂系列，系列下有 4 款腕表，它们基于 Swatch 的 SKIN 超薄系列腕表，同时采用了独特的色彩，非常有热带气氛。

系列已经通过 Swatch 官网和线下专卖店发售。

## Marshall 推出 Monitor III A.N.C. 油彩白

3 月 25 日，Marshall 马歇尔开始在中国官网发售 Monitor III A.N.C. 油彩白，这是 Marshall 首次把品牌经典的油彩白配色用在 Monitor III A.N.C. 上。

Monitor III A.N.C. 本身也仍然是 Marshall 产品线上代表性的头戴式耳机，它有着出色的音质表现，并支持主动降噪，同时它还有着超长的续航能力，打开主动降噪能实现 70 小时的无线播放时长，如果关掉降噪模式更可以达到 100 小时。

这款特别配色定价 2799 元，和普通款一致。

## 苹果推送 6 大系统版本更新

3 月 25 日早些时候，苹果推送了 iOS 26.4、iPadOS 26.4、macOS 26.4、tvOS 26.4、visionOS 26.4、watchOS 26.4 以及 iOS 18.7.7 和 iPadOS 18.7.7 版本更新。

这次更新带来了 8 个全新表情符号，此外还有错误修复和安全性更新。

---

